# Ecology_and_Evolution_2022_5
This README.txt file was generated by Dylan J. Padilla Perez on 2022-03-25


GENERAL INFORMATION

1. Title of Dataset: Data from: Macroclimatic and maternal effects on the evolution of reproductive traits in lizards

2. Author Information
	A. Principal Investigator Contact Information
		Name: Dylan J. Padilla Perez
		Institution: Arizona State University
		Address: School of Life Sciences
		Email: dpadil10@asu.edu

	B. Associate or Co-investigator Contact Information
		Name: Michael J. Angilletta Jr.
		Institution: Arizona State University
		Address: School of Life Sciences
		Email: ma@asu.edu



3. Data collection: We used published estimates of life histories for 486 species of lizards (for more detail, see Meiri, 2018). Data on mean annual air temperature,  and mean annual precipitation were extracted from WorldClim version 2 (Fick & Hijmans, 2017). We also obtained log-transformed values of net primary production as indicated in (Imhoff et al., 2004). Phylogenetic path analyses were informed by a recent time-calibrated phylogeny for squamate taxa (Zheng & Wiens, 2016).

4. Information about funding sources that supported the collection of the data: This study was financed in part by the São Paulo Research Foundation (FAPESP); grant nos. 2018/17251-0 and 2017/21747-8.


SHARING/ACCESS INFORMATION

1. Licenses/restrictions placed on the data: NA


2. Links to other publicly accessible locations of the data: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/geb.12773, https://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/hanpp-net-primary-productivity, https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1055790315003127

5. Was data derived from another source? Yes. The data set used in our study is a subset of a large data base compiled by Meiri (2018).



DATA & FILE OVERVIEW

1. File List: sites.csv, sps_body_temp.csv, style.css, qgis_data.csv, code_SSE.html, code_SSE.Rmd

2. Are there multiple versions of the dataset? no


METHODOLOGICAL INFORMATION

1. Description of methods used for collection/generation of data: 

Data source

We used published estimates of life histories for 486 species of lizards, belonging to 34 families. We used the mean snout-vent length for hatchlings or neonates (mm), and adult females, as a measure of body size among species. Similarly, we averaged the lowest and highest reported means of clutch or litter sizes for each species (see Meiri, 2018 for details). We used the length of hatchlings as an estimate of offspring size, rather than the mass of eggs, because the latter might reflect variation in water content rather than energy content in species with poorly calcified eggs (Deeming, 2004; Meiri et al., 2015). Moreover, hatchling size can be estimated for viviparous species as well as oviparous species.

Because the range of nearly all reptiles have been mapped (Roll et al., 2017), we could obtain data on annual air temperature and annual precipitation across the range of each species. These climatic variables derived from the monthly values of temperature and rainfall for global land areas at a resolution of 30 s (Fick & Hijmans, 2017). Similarly, we obtained data on log-transformed values of net primary production—the net amount of solar energy converted to plant organic matter through photosynthesis—measured in units of elemental carbon. This measure represents the primary source of trophic energy for the world’s ecosystems (Imhoff et al., 2004). We used polygonal range maps—representing species extent of occurrence—to run a zonal statistical algorithm in the software QGIS version 3.22.2-Białowieża; this algorithm enabled us to extract the means of climatic data across pixels of a range map for each species. In addition to extracting climatic data, we also gathered published records of body temperature measured in the field for 320 species. These data consists of an average of the minimal and maximal temperatures reported in the literature (see Meiri, 2018).


2. Methods for processing the data:


We used Phylogenetic Path Analysis (van der Bijl, 2018) to test our hypotheses on the relationships among macroclimatic factors, maternal factors, and reproductive traits of lizards.


3. Instrument- or software-specific information needed to interpret the data:  We performed all the analyses using the free software R 4.1.1 for Mac OS (https://AQ11 www.R-project.org/). Library: Phylopath, geiger, ape, ggplot2, gridExtra, grid, ggraph, raster, sp, rgdal, kableExtra, psych, nlme, phytools, caper, lattice, pylolm.


4. Environmental/experimental conditions: NA


DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: sites.csv

1. Number of variables: The dataset consists of a data frame containing 865 observations of 14 variables.

2. Number of cases/rows: 865 observations

3. Variable List of importance for our study:
- female.SVL: snout-vent length of adult females (mm)
- hatchling.neonate.SVL: snout-vent length of hatchlings/neonates (mm)


4. Missing data codes: NA

5. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: NA

---

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: sps_body_temp.csv

1. Number of variables: The dataset consists of a data frame containing 625 observations and 15 variables for nocturnal species.

2. Number of cases/rows: 625 observations

3. Variable List of importance for our study:
- female.SVL: snout-vent length of adult females (mm)
- hatchling.neonate.SVL: snout-vent length of hatchlings/neonates (mm)

4. Missing data codes: NA

5. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: NA


---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: qgis_data.csv

1. Number of variables: The dataset consists of a data frame containing 9802 observations and 12 variables for nocturnal species.

2. Number of cases/rows: 9802 observations

3. Variable List of importance for our study:

- tempmean: mean annual air temperature across the range of species (°C)
- precmean: mean annual precipitation across the range of species (mm)
- nppmean: mean primary production across the range of species (units of elemental carbon)

4. Missing data codes: NA 



---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: code_SSE.html

1. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: Built reproducible workflow containing all data analyses, including good quality figures and tables.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: code_SSE.Rmd

1. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: R markdown file containing the fully reproducible workflow of the analyses. This is the script used to render the file 'code_SSE.html' in R.

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: style.css

1. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: This is a style sheet that contains the settings for visualization of tables, figures, and code included in the 'code_SSE.html' file. Readers should download all files and save them in the same folder so that the 'code_SSE.html' file remains with the desired settings.


---

---

DATA-SPECIFIC INFORMATION FOR: tree.nex

1. Specialized formats or other abbreviations used: Time-calibrated phylogeny from (Zheng & Wiens, 2016). Please download the tree from the paper and name it "tree.nex" for further use in our analyses.
